---
layout: careerpost
title: Communications Coordinator
category: careers
location: Tariffville, CT or Wellesley, MA
col: 4
---
The Communications Coordinator will manage all aspects of customer-facing media and communications. This is a full-time salaried position, located at the Metrum Research Group Tariffville, CT or Metro-Boston (Wellesley, MA) offices. Key responsibilities include:

* Interface with customers on new projects, from lead development through work scope/contract execution
* Receive, review, and delegate incoming requests for proposals
* Lead the project proposal process across all programs, with assistance from team scientists and resource management
* Conduct post-project reviews with team scientists and customers
* Manage social media and web presence for the company, as part of the overall marketing strategy
* Implement and contribute to the development of marketing strategies with company leadership
* Organize the company publication strategy and provide administrative support for preparation and submission of manuscripts, abstracts, and conference presentations
* Organize and participate in external events (will include some travel), such as trade shows, conferences, symposia, training sessions/workshops
* Organize and manage company affiliations and interactions with professional and trade organizations at the local, national, and international levels
* Manage customer contacts and project databases

Excellent written and verbal communication skills and attention to detail are essential for this position. Solid experience and competency with social media, web, and end-user computer technologies are required. Experience with HTML/CSS is a plus. An education and/or prior experience in a field related to biomedical research and development would be ideal.

Metrum Research Group, established in 2004, is a global leader in biomedical modeling and simulation services, tools, and products. Our work and our company culture are characterized by quality cutting-edge science, knowledge sharing, strong service-centered collaboration, teamwork, and a healthy career/life balance.

Please send resume and a brief cover letter in the body of an email. We prefer to hear directly from candidates. No recruiters please. Metrum Research Group is an equal opportunity employer.

<div style="padding:10px 0px 30px 0px;text-align:center"><a class="btn btn-success"href="mailto:employment@metrumrg.com?Subject=Communications%20Coordinator%20Position">Apply Now</a> </div>



